JUDY WOODRUFF: As we
reported earlier in the
program, the Senate today
overwhelmingly passed
new sanctions against Iran.
But a key amendment makes
that bill even broader.
It now includes sanctions
aimed at Russia.
This is five months after U.S.
intelligence agencies made
public that Russian President
Vladimir Putin ordered
cyber-interference
in the 2016 election.
Lisa Desjardins has
been following the vote,
and she joins me now.
So, Lisa, tell us what
these Russia sanctions are.
LISA DESJARDINS: These are
not just symbolic, Judy.
These are significant sanctions.
Let's take a quick look.
First of all, they target
Russian industries,
especially the energy sector.
Those sanctions would include
things limiting U.S. companies,
prohibiting them from working
with Russian firms, say,
exploring the Arctic.
That's a big deal.
Also, this would target
individuals working in
defense or intelligence,
individual Russians.
There are some new
powers in here.
The Treasury would get
access to U.S. bank records
of Russian oligarchs.
Also, $250 million for
a countering Russia
influence fund that would
focus on cyber-security,
but also could be
some U.S. propaganda.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, separately,
the Senate passed an amendment
to this that affects the
president.
Tell us about that.
LISA DESJARDINS: This
is remarkable, Judy.
This is a Republican Congress
asserting power with a
Republican president in office.
Let's look at exactly
how that would work.
If this president wanted
to roll back any of these
sanctions, he would have to give
Congress 30-day notice
under this amendment.
Congress could then
disapprove and ultimately
block the president from
rolling back sanctions
with a two-thirds vote.
Essentially, Judy, what the
Senate is saying here is, we
think Congress should set Russia
policy now, not the president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
what is the White House
saying about all this?
LISA DESJARDINS: The White
House today said it's
reviewing these sanctions.
No secret the president is in
a very tricky position here,
not just because of this Russia
investigation, but because he
and his secretary of state have
said they don't think this is
a good time to increase
sanctions on Russia.
They think it could backfire.
But it's interesting, Judy, the
Senate attached these Russia
sanctions to an Iran sanctions
bill that the president
wants to sign.
Meanwhile, Democrats are worried
about the Iran sanctions,
worried that that could cause
problems with the Iran deal,
which leaves the president
deciding, does he swallow these
Russia sanctions that go with
an Iran deal he likes at a time
of the Russia investigation?
We have to wait and see.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And in two
seconds, if the president were
to veto this, the assumption
is, it would be overridden?
LISA DESJARDINS: That's correct.
It passed with 98
votes in the Senate.
Absolutely, they would
override that veto.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lisa
Desjardins, thank you.
LISA DESJARDINS: My pleasure.